Updates for the Cura 5.5 Beta (#16919)
Ultimaker/Cura: resources/texts/change_log.txt

[5.5]

*Engine Plugins

> - Introduced infrastructure to enable the creation of Engine Plugins it’s a way to add and change new settings to Cura. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced infrastructure for Engine Plugins; Plugin developers can now hook into and change the actual slice process using a programming language in which they feel comfortable: C++, Python, C#/.NET, Dart, Go, Java, Kotlin, Node, Objective-C, PHP, Ruby
```

Remember to check how `C#/.NET` behaves in the actual changes log

> - In this first version, there are engine slots available for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In this initial version, plugins can hook into the following engine slots: 
```

> -- Gcode postprocessing to allow plugins to modify gcode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Modify generated gcode, postprocessing it per layer
```

> -- Infill to allow plugins to modify Infill Generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Generate Infill patterns
```

> -- Broadcasting settings used for a slice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Modify extrusion paths
-- Listen to a broadcast of all Settings
```

> - To enable this we created an exception for loading project files with settings introduced in a plug-in, and introduced a way to notify the user if they load a project file with an engine plug-in that is not yet available.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cura plugins can now easily add new Settings and extend existing dropdown Settings
- Users are now warned if a previously saved project file depends on a plugin and that plugin isn't installed in the Cura instance which tries to load it
```

> - To enable this we created an exception for loading project files with settings introduced in a plug-in, and introduced a way to notify the user if they load a project file with an engine plug-in that is not yet available.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To showcase this new infrastructure we introduced a Gradual Flow Engine plugin; This plugin prevents sudden drastic changes in flow transitions. You can find it under your bundled plug-ins and the new gradual flow settings can be found in the material category when all settings are visible
```

> - To showcase this new infrastructure we introduced a plug-in with new Gradual Flow settings that prevent sudden flow jumps when transitioning between flows. You can find it under your installed plug-ins and in your settings list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To showcase this new infrastructure we introduced a Gradual Flow Engine plugin; This plugin prevents sudden drastic changes in flow transitions. You can find it under your bundled plug-ins and the new gradual flow settings can be found in the material category when all settings are visible
```

*Introduced Settings
- Gradual Flow Enabled, Gradual Flow Max Acceleration, Initial Layer Max Flow Acceleration, Gradual Flow discretization step size, are to finetune the Gradual Flow plug-in.
- Top Surface Outer Wall Flow, Top Surface Inner Wall Flow, Top Surface Outer Wall Speed, Top Surface Inner Wall Speed, Top Surface Outer Wall Acceleration, Top Surface Inner Wall Acceleration, Top Surface Outer Wall Jerk, and Top Surface Inner Wall Jerk settings can be used to tune the top surface of your models. 
- Small Top/Bottom Width reduces jerky motions in small top/bottom surfaces, with Small Top/Bottom On Surface you can exclude the setting on the surface
- Enable Fluid Motion, Fluid Motion Shift Distance, Fluid Motions Small Distance, and Fluid Motion Angle are settings for printers with smooth motion planners like Klipper.

> - Group Outer Walls  will bundle types of walls in the same layer reducing travels, thanks to the contribution by @Arcari55

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Group Outer Walls  will bundle types of walls in the same layer reducing travels, thanks to the contribution by <a href="https://github.com/Arcari55">Arcari55</a>
```

*Updates on supported OSses

> - Introduced Max OSX builds for ARM64 (M1 support), next to our existing X64 builds. With major contributions from @TheSin

Reviewer 2: Mac OSX, not MaxOSX

> - Introduced Mac OSX builds for ARM64 (M1 support), next to our existing X64 builds. With major contributions from @TheSin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced Mac OSX builds for ARM64 (M1 support), next to our existing X64 builds. With major contributions by <a href="https://github.com/TheSin">TheSin</a>
```

- Introduced a single Linux build removing the need to have a different modern and regular Linux build. 

*Setting improvements for Ultimaker Printers
- UltiMaker printers with UltiMaker Materials have faster-predicted printing times as a result of a number of changed printing speeds
- UltiMaker configurations with limited intent in the past, like AA 0.8 cores, now have more intents available
- Updated printing temperatures for UltiMaker printers to be more uniform
- Updated Support Interface Settings for UltiMaker printers 
- Introduced a support material tag, so support is automatically printed with support material

*Quality of Life Improvements
- Use Tab to navigate between settings in the Per Model Settings window

> - Introduced Ctrl-C and Ctrl-V next to the current multiply behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced Ctrl-C and Ctrl-V next to the current multiply behavior; This will also work across Cura instances (5.5+)
```

- Arrange your models in a grid with the same orientation with Grid Placement
- A message that shows when your Removable Disk is out of space and prevents incomplete gcodes from being saved
- Add Printer and Printer Settings windows are now resizable to fit in more start/end gcode.
- Restored the color picker tool when creating custom materials.
- You can now scroll through long messages, and can easily close them if you finished reading
- Searching for materials and plugins in the Cura Marketplace has been improved
- "This Setting Is Hidden Because" icons were missing in the settings visibility for Windows and Mac
- You can now load multiple files again even if they are mixed STLs and Project Files
- It seemed like models could be multiplied more than 99 times, there is now a limit
- It's now clearer if Cura is syncing materials over the cloud
- It's not possible anymore to send a printjob to an turned off cloud connected UltiMaker printer

> *Other Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Other Features
```

- You can now sponsor the Cura team from the Application Switcher, and Help menu
- Infill behavior close to the skin to prevent jerky motions and visible overextrusion
- The About Dialog includes more build information for Cura developers
- Introduced more hardware info like system, release, version, processor, and CPU cores to the logging to improve troubleshooting.
- Updated supporting certify libraries

> - Introduced a new Post Processing Script; Limit XY Accel for bed-slinger printers, contributed by @GregValiant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced a new Post Processing Script; Limit XY Accel for bed-slinger printers, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/GregValiant">GregValiant</a>
```

> - Introduced the machine name in the gcode headers, contributed by @smartin015

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced the machine name in the gcode headers, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/smartin015">smartin015</a>
```

> *Bug Fixes that improve Printed Part Quality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bug Fixes that improve Printed Part Quality
```

- The first support layers were printed incorrectly if adhesion was set to None
- The support was printed before the brim when the origin was at the center of the buildplate
- Printers with a high resolution would incorrectly print embossed features
- The flow would unexpectedly increase after a bridge was completed.
- Bridging settings would not be applied to the first skin layer if the infill density was set to 0
- The skirt height could collide with some models and could be printed in support
- A brim would be too small if the extruder was not defined.
- The Initial Buildplate and Printing Temperature would not be applied correctly when printing One-At-A-Time

> *Other Bug Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Other Bug Fixes
```

> - You could not load some Marketplace materials with intents on the like BASFE 17-4PH

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be `BASF Ultrafuse 17-4PH`?

```suggestion
- You could not load some Marketplace materials with intents on the like BASF Ultrafuse 17-4PH
```

- For some Linux versions it was not possible to add a 3D printer
- Fixed the installation screen for DMG installation because it still had the old logo.
- The minimum support area was not working correctly for tree support
- Support Horizontal Expansion would be hidden but influenced the warning  for Support Interface

> - The shadow in One At A Time printing sequence would not correctly resize with the skirt/brim size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The shadow in One-At-A-Time printing sequence would not correctly resize with the skirt/brim size
```

- It was not possible to select the support structure with basic setting visibility.
- Removed the option to change the Brim Distance in the per object setting untilit is fixed
- Fixed a slicing crash if the skirt was larger than the buildplate
- Fixed a crash that would be caused when rotating a model only a little
- If support interface is disabled, you can no longer change those settings

> - Ints would be truncated instead of rounded in the engine, contributed by @onitake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ints would be truncated instead of rounded in the engine, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/onitake">onitake</a>
```

> - Fixed a non-raw RegEx pattern string removing a depreciation warning contributed by @cgobat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a non-raw RegEx pattern string removing a depreciation warning contributed by <a href="https://github.com/cgobat">cgobat</a>
```

* Printer definitions, profiles and materials: 
- For MacOS users these printers are supported again: Elegoo, Strateo3D, Uni, ZAV

> - Added Anycubic Kobra Plus, contributed by @Jordonbc
> - Added Creality Ender-5 S1, contributed  @thomaspleasance
> - Added Entina Tina 2, contributed by @protosam
> - Added Pulse XE E444M, contributed by @randyzwitch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added Anycubic Kobra Plus, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/Jordonbc">Jordonbc</a>
- Added Creality Ender-5 S1, contributed <a href="https://github.com/thomaspleasance">thomaspleasance</a>
- Added Entina Tina 2, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/protosam">protosam</a>
- Added Pulse XE E444M, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/randyzwitch">randyzwitch</a>
```

- Updated Primetower settings for Sovol 2

> - Updated Kingroon KP3S Pro, contributed by @Tachyonn
> - Updated All Goofoo 3D printers to have more nozzles, contributed by @goofoo3d
> - Updated Tree Support settings for Elegoo Printers, Contributed by @ThomasRahm
> - Updated Voron Trident 250, 300 & 350 Voron to include new nozzles, contributed by @zadi15
> - Updated Creality Ender 3 start gcode to prevent bed scratching, Contributed by @PresentMonkey
> - Updated nozzle options for Dagoma Pro 430, contributed by @0r31
> - Updated start gcode and homing behavior in Creality Ender 3 S1, contributed by @GregValiant.
> - Updated faulty disallowed areas for Anycubic Kossel, contributed by @GregValiant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated Kingroon KP3S Pro, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/Tachyonn">Tachyonn</a>
- Updated All Goofoo 3D printers to have more nozzles, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/goofoo3d">goofoo3d</a>
- Updated Tree Support settings for Elegoo Printers, Contributed by <a href="https://github.com/ThomasRahm">ThomasRahm</a>
- Updated Voron Trident 250, 300 & 350 Voron to include new nozzles, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/zadi15">zadi15</a>
- Updated Creality Ender 3 start gcode to prevent bed scratching, Contributed by <a href="https://github.com/PresentMonkey">PresentMonkey</a>
- Updated nozzle options for Dagoma Pro 430, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/0r31">0r31</a>
- Updated start gcode and homing behavior in Creality Ender 3 S1, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/GregValiant">GregValiant</a>
- Updated faulty disallowed areas for Anycubic Kossel, contributed by <a href="https://github.com/Jordonbc">GregValiant</a>
```
